.\" $Id: ljs.man,v 1.14 2016/10/17 15:43:50 lhf Exp $
.TH LJS 1 "$Date: 2016/10/17 15:43:50 $"
.SH NAME
ljs \- LJS interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ljs
[
.I options
]
[
.I script
[
.I args
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ljs
is the standalone LJS interpreter.
It loads and executes LJS programs,
either in textual source form or
in precompiled binary form.
(Precompiled binaries are output by
.BR ljsc ,
the LJS compiler.)
.B ljs
can be used as a batch interpreter and also interactively.
.LP
The given
.I options
are handled in order and then
the LJS program in file
.I script
is loaded and executed.
The given
.I args
are available to
.I script
as strings in a global table named
.BR arg .
If no options or arguments are given,
then
.B "\-v \-i"
is assumed when the standard input is a terminal;
otherwise,
.B "\-"
is assumed.
.LP
In interactive mode,
.B ljs
prompts the user,
reads lines from the standard input,
and executes them as they are read.
If the line contains an expression or list of expressions,
then the line is evaluated and the results are printed.
If a line does not contain a complete statement,
then a secondary prompt is displayed and
lines are read until a complete statement is formed or
a syntax error is found.
.LP
At the very start,
before even handling the command line,
.B ljs
checks the contents of the environment variables
.B LJS_INIT_5_3
or
.BR LJS_INIT ,
in that order.
If the contents is of the form
.RI '@ filename ',
then
.I filename
is executed.
Otherwise, the string is assumed to be a LJS statement and is executed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e " stat"
execute statement
.IR stat .
.TP
.B \-i
enter interactive mode after executing
.IR script .
.TP
.BI \-l " name"
execute the equivalent of
.IB name =require(' name ')
before executing
.IR script .
.TP
.B \-v
show version information.
.TP
.B \-E
ignore environment variables.
.TP
.B \-\-
stop handling options.
.TP
.B \-
stop handling options and execute the standard input as a file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ljsc (1)
.br
The documentation at lua.org,
especially section 7 of the reference manual.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages should be self explanatory.
.SH AUTHORS
R. Ierusalimschy,
L. H. de Figueiredo,
W. Celes,
Domingo Alvarez Duarte
.\" EOF
